## PhD student position / Project Researcher / Research Assistant

Open PhD student position / Project Researcher / Research Assistant in high-throughput biomedical data analysis (Finland / Belgium) 1.7.2017 – 30.6.2019

**A position is open for a PhD candidate on high-throughput biomedical data analysis** in the research team of Dr. [Leo Lahti](http://www.iki.fi/Leo.Lahti) in University of Turku, Finland. The project provides a unique opportunity to gain widely applicable data analytical skills and make pioneering work in a rapidly emerging, data-intensive biomedical research area; a particular focus of the project is on computational analysis and modeling of the human microbiome and its individuality, dynamics, and function in large population cohorts. The project is funded by Academy of Finland and the preferred starting date is July 1, 2017.

**Project** The position is intended for full-time research including moderate contributions to university teaching and other supporting tasks. The project aims at a holistic characterization of the organization and dynamics of the human microbiome and its associations with host lifestyle and health, with the ultimate aim to improve fundamental understanding and applications of human biology and personalized medicine. A particular focus will be on the development of statistical techniques and data science tools for biomedical research, blending approaches from statistical machine learning, ecology, bioinformatics, and related fields. You will join the Turku biomedical research community and work in close collaboration with key partners in Finland and abroad. The project starts with a 6-12 month mobility period in the research group of Prof. [Jeroen Raes](http://www.vib.be/en/research/scientists/Pages/Jeroen-Raes-Lab.aspx) at VIB/KU Leuven, Belgium.

**Qualifications** We are looking for outstanding candidates with a high level of independence as well as good collaboration skills and analytical capabilities. An ideal candidate would have a solid background in mathematics and/or statistics, familiarity with statistical programming (e.g. R/Python/Matlab/Julia) and bioinformatics, and ability to work in multidisciplinary environment. Fluent communication skills in English are essential. The doctoral candidate should hold a MSc degree in a relevant research field. Strong candidates who are willing to make MSc thesis as part of the project are also encouraged to apply. The new doctoral student must pass the standard enrollment process.

**Salary** The salary depends on the stage of the studies and is based on the University salary system for research personnel and will allow full-time focus on the doctoral studies. The position has a trial period of 4 months.

**Host institute** University of Turku is a world-class research university with an active biomedical research community. The research team of Dr. Lahti at the [Department of Mathematics and Statistics](http://www.utu.fi/en/units/sci/units/math/Pages/home.aspx) focuses on the theory and applications of modern data analytics with a stimulating multidisciplinary research environment and international collaboration networks. The working language is English, and support for international staff is available. The project will start with a 6-12 month mobility period in the research group of Prof. Jeroen Raes at VIB/KU Leuven, Belgium. The city of Turku is a vivid, middle-sized student city with 180,000 inhabitants, beautiful natural surroundings and ample opportunities for free-time activities.

**Application** Applications must be submitted no later than Friday, May 26, 2017 via the electronic application form of the University of Turku. For further details, you can contact Dr Leo Lahti. Contact information and the link to the application system can be found from the [University of Turku recruitment page](https://www.utu.fi/fi/Yliopisto/yliopisto-tyonantajana/avoimet-tehtavat/Sivut/home.aspx) (ID 3662). 

